so your story views have tanked and you
can't figure it out well today you're in
luck because I'm going to tell you why
it's happened and how we can fix
[Music]
it hey my name is shelene Johnson
welcome to build your tribe my co-host
is Brock Johnson and we are we're always
honored that you would tune into one of
our episodes we love talking about
social media we love talking about ways
that you can make money online and to
grow your awareness today however we're
talking about why it is your awareness
is shrinking if you are like most people
especially when it comes to Instagram
you're looking at your stories Andor
Facebook and saying why are my views
down why are my views cut in half I know
it was true for me as a matter of fact
the Catalyst for doing this episode was
my own view count which had been cut to
almost a quarter of what it had been and
I was like what did I do wrong is
Instagram Shadow Banning me like why are
so few people checking out my incredibly
good content on my stories okay so let's
talk about a whole bunch of reasons that
everybody's view counts are down and the
first of which is saturation we know
that we are in a social media recession
think about it like everybody has more
social media accounts you probably even
have more than one your mom has an
account your dad has an account your
sister's dog has its own account like
everybody has multiple accounts so this
oversaturation the increase of Supply is
coupled with a decrease in demand in
other words you probably like most
people are trying to figure out way is
to consume less social media I know I am
I'm like I'm trying to follow fewer
people I I scroll through my feet I'm
like who even is this like why am I
following them I'm not seeing the kind
of content I want to see I find myself
sometimes like mindlessly scrolling and
and getting mad at myself because I've
wasted like an hour and I'm like okay I
need to stop doing this the last thing I
want to do is follow somebody new and
I'm sure that's true for you too right
think about it most of us are like I
need to unfollow a whole bunch of
accounts I'm trying to consume less so
now we've got those two things coupled
and we're in a social media recession an
economic recession is when the demand is
low and the supply is high that's where
we are we are in a social media
recession therefore it's important to
recognize all of us are likely going to
see a reduction in our view count
because the competition is so high and
the demand continues to lower hey before
we go much further speaking of a social
media recession the thing about a follow
the thing about a subscribe on YouTube
is it's free and I hope that you find
the content we're delivering to be
valuable and if you do could I ask that
you just take a moment to hit the
Subscribe button it's free and it also
means good karma like when you subscribe
you're guaranteed good parking lot Karma
you're going to get the spot like right
up front you're not even going to have
to like circle around the lot but once
that's what happens when you subscribe
to build your tribe if you like this
video and you want to learn more about
how to like truly brand your Instagram
especially if you're somebody over 40 I
want you to check out this episode so
keep that in mind will it ever climb
back up to where it once was it's hard
to say it might but what it means is
we've got to be more intentional about
creating exceptional content when it
comes to our stories now remember when
it comes to your Instagram Stories the
only people that are going to see your
stories are people who are already
following you anyone new who's not
following you will not see your stories
and it's important to remember that
because it's how we connect on a deeper
level with the people who are already
following us sales happen on our store
stories if we're going to get someone to
come from our Instagram over to our
email list typically that happens on
stories that's how I'm converting people
onto my email list if you didn't catch
the recent episode I did where I talked
about how we grew our email list I think
over 40,000 in less than 2 weeks you
need to check that out because it
happens on stories so it's a very
important thing for us to get people to
watch our stories setting the decreased
demand and the increased Supply aside
what things might you be doing that
could be working against you when it
comes to Instagram showing your stories
to your followers I'm glad you asked
because I had to take a look at that I
figured out some things I was doing that
I didn't realize were having a dramatic
impact on my story views and I got this
directly from a friend who worked at
Instagram okay so the first thing is
this any use of explicit songs or songs
with explicit lyrics is going to dimin
the number of accounts that Instagram
shows your stories to for a myriad of
reasons even though these songs are
approved even though these songs are
like you know they're in everybody's
feed and it might even be a trending
audio but if you're using in your
stories and it's got explicit lyrics
there are many people who either will
report that because they don't want
explicit lyrics number one number two
Instagram just knows we want to show
your content to the greatest number of
people so it's got to work for the
masses and I i' had been using a ton of
like new Nicki Minaj I love Nicki Minaj
she's just like my girl and a lot of her
new songs has very explicit lyrics I've
always used those but recently I've been
using a lot more of them and that could
account for my reduction in story views
which leads me to my next point which is
any explicit language so I sometimes use
the B bat word I and I think it's I love
that word I think it's so fun it's like
part of my brand I love using it but
when I have used it or any other cuss
word because I'm a Christian who likes
to cuss I will notice that Instagram
will say like hey oh hold on this you
posted something that is often banned or
Limited in views by Instagram do you
want to post it anyways and I was like a
rebel and like yeah post it anyways that
was stupid it was definitely limiting My
Views so does that mean I have to uh
censor myself if I Want More Story views
yes and that's fine it's not like a part
of my Identity or anything so I I don't
need to to use that kind of language I
can definitely curtail it especially if
it means I'm going to be reaching fewer
people Instagram will limit your views
if you're showing nudity or if it's
mistaken what you're showing as nudity
so I heard from one follower who was
told that they had Community violations
by the way did you know you can check
with Instagram we're going to show you a
quick little tutorial right now to show
you how you can check to see if your
account is currently in violation of any
of the community guidelines now there's
no guarantee that Instagram is going to
notify you but it's really important for
you to double check this because you
might be doing something that has been
mistakenly tagged as a community
violation here's how you can
[Music]
check back to one of our students of
insta clubhub who was notified that they
were in violation of community
guidelines for showing nudity when in
fact they weren't nude it was just a
onesie outfit Fitness outfit that was
kind of a peach color so it looked like
they were nude you got to be careful
this happened to me once on Tik Tok I
was roller skating and I think I was
wearing like pink leggings and all the
people underneath were commenting why is
this woman roller skating in the nude I
was not roller skating in the nude do
you remember when there was all the talk
about the virus which shall not be named
and anytime you said the CW or um The CW
and the number 19 that your account
would get flagged or you would get like
a notification underneath it yeah that
still holds true and it also holds true
it's also important to remember as we're
approaching an election season that any
type of political conversation typically
it's going to get you fewer views on
Instagram regardless of whether you're
on the right or left or somewhere in
between anything that Instagram thinks
is misinformation can limit your account
and that could be anything from you
talking about the benefits of a product
product that you offer or some kind of
science that you're referring to if you
don't have the research to back it up or
for some reason Instagram decides that
you're spreading misinformation or if
somebody reports you for spreading
misinformation which can happen a lot
then your story views will go down if
you're someone who has bought followers
or likes or if it's something you're
doing now please stop stop immediately
don't do that and if you've done it in
the past a lot of people are like what
do I do I bought followers or I bought
likes what can I do you just got to move
forward there's like nothing you can do
now it's going to take some time before
your account starts to come back to life
it will ding you the other thing which
is really surprising that I learned from
this friend of mine who worked at
Instagram is Filters Instagram is trying
to show less and less content where
people are using a filter isn't that
interesting and so I took a look at my
um explor page take a look at your
Explorer page and if you look at your
Explorer page there's very very very few
people on there who are using a filter
unless of course they've found some
third party where they're filming with
the filter and then downloading it and
then saving it to their camera roll and
then uploading it without the filter
notification but yeah Instagram is
trying to show people less and less
filtered content I like that one if
you're getting comments and questions
and not responding to people Instagram
sees that as you giving your followers
low engagement and so they will likely
diminish the number of people who are
seeing your stories if your followers
aren't engaging with your content the
same can be true now we've done a whole
bunch of episodes I'm going to link to
them below and here on YouTube and in
these episodes we share with you easy
ways to get your engagement back up but
some simple tips I want to share with
you now are like anything where you're
you're asking your followers to be
engaged in the story so you even when
you're showing people like what you're
doing behind the scenes ask them for
their opinion ask them how their day was
ask them to vote in a poll ask them to
tap the stick you want to get your
followers to actually dm with you and
here's the reason why Instagram has been
very transparent about the fact that
they want to show content to people who
they believe you actually have a
relationship with and one of the ways
that they determine that the algorithm
determines that is are there two-way
conversations are these two people dming
back and forth if that's going to happen
your content your stories are much more
likely to be seen by that person and
others so the moral of the story is have
conversations
get people to talk to you on your
stories and the last two reasons why
your stories might be getting fewer
views are flooding and poor quality
content first let's talk about flooding
flooding is when you only post the
stories like once or twice a day and
when you do it's like bang bang bang
bang bang bang you look you post like a
bunch of stories all together all at
once and people see it and it's just
like too many so they stop the other
reason why is the quality just isn't
good it's just just not that interesting
listen as I talked about at the the
beginning of this episode we are in a
social media recession businesses
survive in economic recessions when they
differentiate when they go above and
beyond when they provide incredible
quality and service and they take care
of their customers and they build that
loyalty the same is true of a social
media recession your content has to
stand out it's got to be better than it
once was so our recommendation to our
students of insta clubhub and to those
of you who listen to build your tribe is
to focus Less on quantity of stories and
focus more on quantity things that are
really valuable think about the things
that people love what do you love seeing
on stories most people love tips they
love resources they love things that
help them that aren't always about you
serving yourself so when I say people
like to buy things that doesn't mean
that you should only show the things
that you sell that feels too
self-serving people want to see all the
things that you suggest and that they
could buy for example when I share
content on my Instagram stories of like
my favorite things on Amazon my stories
my story views go through the roof I
just have to remember to do that more
often because people do love to shop
they love tips so pay attention to the
type of content that you enjoy on
stories and create more of that hey it
is my goal to be brief to be bright to
make it fun and then be done ladies and
gentlemen we're done thanks for being
here
[Music]
m